In this lesson we will be covering
how to copy files over the network.
You already know how to copy files from
one location to another on the same system
using the CP command.
But if you want to copy files from your
local work station to a Linux server or
between Linux servers you
need to use SCP or SFTP.
SCP is Secure Copy and
SFTP is SSH file transfer protocol.
Sometimes SFTP is referred to as
secure file transfer protocol.
SCP and SFTP are both extensions
of the secure shell protocol.
In order to use SCP or
SFTP you need a client.
Mac and Linux come with SCP and
SFTP command line utilities.
If you are running Windows, you can use
the PuTTY Secure Copy client psct.ext and
the PuTTY Secure file
transfer client psftp.exe.
There are graphical clients as well,
Cyberduck is popular for Mac and
Windows, FileZilla runs on Mac,
Windows, and Linux.
WinSCP is a Windows only SCP and
SFTP client.
If you're looking for
more interactive experience
where you can examine the local files and
remote files, use SFTP.
With SCP,
you need to know what files you want
to transfer before issuing the command.
SCP and SFTP aren't the only ways to
transfer files to remote systems.
Sometimes FTP,
called file transfer protocol, is enabled.
In such cases you can use the built-in
FTP command line client on Linux and
Mac, or a graphical client like WinSCP for
Windows.
Just be aware that FTP is not a secure
transfer protocol like SCP and SFTP.
This means that your login credentials
are sent in plain text over the network.
Also that the files that you upload and
download are not encrypted either.
If given the choice between SCP,
SFTP or FTP, pick SCP or SFTP.
Let's use our SFTP client to
connect to this Linux server.
When you connect to the remote server,
you're placed into your home directory.
And LS will show the files
that are in my home directory.
If you precede those commands
with an L that's for local.
So, lpwd says that I'm in
the local tmp test directory.
And lls will show what files
are on the local box in tmp test.
So let's put z.txt onto the server and
we'll do an ls.
And we can see that z.txt
shows up on the remote server.
Let's delete it off the remote server.
And let's do an ls with a dash l for
a long listing and see if it's gone.
And it is.
So we'll quit our SFTP client.
With SCP you can copy from your
local system to the remote system,
but you need to know the source and
destination.
So our source file will be z.txt.
Our destination will be linuxsvr1.
Append a colon at the end of the server
name followed by a path name.
We could put this file in the tmp
directory on the remote server.
We could put this file in
say our home directory.
Tilda is a shortcut for home.
Let's connect to the Linux server and
show that we did place the z.txt there,
and also in tmp.
Let's transfer this file to the remote
server as a different user.
Let's use adminuser@linuxsvr.
And we'll place this in
the adminuser's home directory.
Okay and we can use Tilda as a shortcut
for home or we can specify the full path.
Let's just do that.
And let's connect.
It's the same with SFTP.
Let's connect to SFTP
adminuser@linuxserver.
And you can see that
z.txt was transferred.
Let's look at using a graphical
client like Filezilla.
To connect via SFTP type SFTP;; and
then the IP address or server name.
And give a username and
password and click quick connect.
If you get prompted about an SSH key,
go ahead and accept it.
And this is a one-time thing.
On the left side you see our local
files on our work station, and
on the right side are the remote
files on the Linux server.
We'll just pick a file to
transfer up to our Linux server.
Let's put it in our desktop folder.
And you can drag and
drop the file from local to remote,
also from remote to local.
And you can also do a transfer by
double clicking the file as well.
Let's login to our Linux server and
see if those files got
transferred like we expected.
And we can see that the file is on
the desktop, double click to open.
Yep, it made it.
Let's look at our documents folder and
we can see the file is there as well.
To transfer files over
the network you need a client.
There are command line clients like SCP,
SFTP and FTP.
You can also you a graphical client
such as Cyberduck, FileZilla or WinSCP.
If you have a choice to use FTP or
SFTP choose SFTP.